docs: migrating from CRA (#61866)
vercel/next.js: docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/11-upgrading/05-from-create-react-app.mdx

---
title: Migrating from Create React App
description: Learn how to migrate your existing React application from Create React App to Next.js.
---

This guide will help you migrate an existing Create React App site to Next.js.

> ## Why Switch?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why switch?
```

There are several reasons why you might want to switch from Create React App to Next.js:

### Slow initial page loading time

Create React App uses purely client-side React. Client-side only applications, also known as single-page applications (SPAs), often experience slow initial page loading time. This happens due to a couple of reasons:

> 1. The browser needs to wait for the React code and your entire application bundle to download and run before your code is able to send requests to load some data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The browser needs to wait for the React code and your entire application bundle to download and run before your code is able to send requests to load data.
```

> 2. Your application code grows with every new feature and extra dependency you add.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Your application code grows with every new feature and dependency you add.
```

This enables you to build pages that are faster to load and also eliminate [layout shifts](https://vercel.com/blog/how-core-web-vitals-affect-seo).

### Choose the data fetching strategy

Depending on your needs, Next.js allows you to choose your data fetching strategy on a page and component basis. You can decide to fetch at build time, at request time on the server, or on the client. For example, you can fetch data from your CMS and render your blog posts at build time, which can then be efficiently cached on a CDN.

### Middleware

[Next.js Middleware](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware) allows you to run code on the server before a request is completed. This is especially useful to avoid having a flash of unauthenticated content when the user visits an authenticated-only page by redirecting the user to a login page. The middleware is also useful for experimentation and [internationalization](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/internationalization).

> ### Built-in Optimizations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Built-in optimizations
```

[Images](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/images), [fonts](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts), and [third-party scripts](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/scripts) often have significant impact on an application's performance. Next.js comes with built-in components that automatically optimize those for you.

> ## Migration Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migration steps
```

Our goal with this migration is to get a working Next.js application as quickly as possible, so that
you can then adopt Next.js features incrementally. To begin with, we'll keep it as a purely
client-side application (SPA) without migrating your existing router. This helps minimize the
chances of encountering issues during the migration process and reduces merge conflicts.

### Step 1: Install the Next.js Dependency

The first thing you need to do is to install `next` as a dependency:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npm install next@latest
```

> ### Step 2: Create the Next.js Configuration File

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Create the Next.js configuration file
```

Create a `next.config.mjs` at the root of your project. This file will hold your
[Next.js configuration options](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js).

```js filename="next.config.mjs"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  output: 'export', // Outputs a Single-Page Application (SPA).
  distDir: './dist', // Changes the build output directory to `./dist/`.
}

export default nextConfig
```

> **Good to know:** You can use either `.js` or `.mjs` for your Next.js configuration file.

> ### Step 3: Update TypeScript Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Update TypeScript configuration
```

```json filename="tsconfig.json"
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "es5",
    "lib": ["dom", "dom.iterable", "esnext"],
    "allowJs": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "strict": false,
    "forceConsistentCasingInFileNames": true,
    "noEmit": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "module": "esnext",
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "isolatedModules": true,
    "jsx": "preserve",
    "baseUrl": ".",
    "incremental": true,
    "plugins": [
      {
        "name": "next"
      }
    ],
    "strictNullChecks": true
  },
  "include": [
    "next-env.d.ts",
    "**/*.ts",
    "**/*.tsx",
    ".next/types/**/*.ts",
    "./dist/types/**/*.ts"
  ],
  "exclude": ["node_modules"]
}
```

You can find more information about configuring TypeScript on the
[Next.js docs](/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/typescript#typescript-plugin).

### Step 4: Create the Root Layout

A Next.js [App Router](/docs/app) application must include a
[root layout](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/pages-and-layouts#root-layout-required)
file, which is a [React Server Component](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components)

> that will wrap all pages in your application. This file is defined at the top level of the `app`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that will wrap all pages in your application. This file is defined at the top level of the `app` directory.
```

> directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The closest equivalent to the root layout file in a CRA application is the `index.html` file, which contains your `<html>`, `<head>`, and `<body>` tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The closest equivalent to the Root Layout file in a CRA application is the `index.html` file, which contains your `<html>`, `<head>`, and `<body>` tags.
```

> In this step, you'll convert your `index.html` file into a root layout file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, you'll convert your `index.html` file into a Root Layout file:
```

   info into an exported
   [`metadata` object](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-metadata#metadata-object):

```tsx filename="app/layout.tsx" switcher
import type { Metadata } from 'next'

export const metadata: Metadata = {
  title: 'React App',
  description: 'Web site created with Next.js.',
}

export default function RootLayout({
  children,
}: {
  children: React.ReactNode
}) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <body>
        <div id="root">{children}</div>
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/layout.js" switcher
export const metadata = {
  title: 'React App',
  description: 'Web site created with Next.js.',
}

export default function RootLayout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <body>
        <div id="root">{children}</div>
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

With the above changes, you shifted from declaring everything in your `index.html` to using Next.js'
convention-based approach built into the framework
([Metadata API](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/metadata)). This approach enables you
to more easily improve your SEO and web shareability of your pages.

> ### Step 5: Create the Entrypoint Page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 5: Create the entrypoint Page
```

On Next.js you declare an entrypoint for your application by creating a `page.tsx` file. The
closest equivalent of this file on CRA is your `src/index.tsx` file. In this step, you’ll set up the
entrypoint of your application.

1. **Create a `[[...slug]]` directory in your `app` directory.**

> Since in this guide we're aiming first to set up our Next.js as an SPA (Single Page Application),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this guide is aiming to first set up our Next.js as an SPA (Single Page Application),
```

you need your page entrypoint to catch all possible routes of your application. For that, create a
new `[[...slug]]` directory in your `app` directory.

This directory is what is called an
[optional catch-all route segment](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/dynamic-routes#optional-catch-all-segments).
Next.js uses a file-system based router where
[directories are used to define routes](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/defining-routes#creating-routes).
This special directory will make sure that all routes of your application will be directed to its
containing `page.tsx` file.

2. **Create a new `page.tsx` file inside the `app/[[...slug]]` directory with the following content:**

```tsx filename="app/[[...slug]]/page.tsx" switcher

> import '../../src/index.css'

Reviewer: Would global CSS typically be imported in the Root Layout or Page? Does it matter?

Author: In this instance, they're equivalent since we're not using something like `app/about/page.tsx` anywhere else.

export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ slug: [''] }]
}

export default function Page() {
  return '...' // We'll update this
}
```

```jsx filename="app/[[...slug]]/page.js" switcher
import '../../src/index.css'

export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ slug: [''] }]
}

export default function Page() {
  return '...' // We'll update this
}
```

> **Good to know**: `.js`, `.jsx`, or `.tsx` extensions can be used for Page files.

This file is a [Server Component](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components). When you run `next build`, the file is prerendered into a static asset. It does _not_ require any dynamic code.

This file imports our global CSS and tells [`generateStaticParams`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-static-params) we are only going to generate one route, the index route at `/`.

Now, let's move the rest of our CRA application which will run client-only.

```tsx filename="app/[[...slug]]/client.tsx" switcher
'use client'

import React from 'react'
import dynamic from 'next/dynamic'

> const App = dynamic(() => import('../../src/App'), { ssr: false })

Reviewer: Very clever!

export function ClientOnly() {
  return <App />
}
```

This file is a [Client Component](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/client-components), defined by the `'use client'`
directive. Client Components are still [prerendered to HTML](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/client-components#how-are-client-components-rendered) on the server before being sent to the client.

Since we want a client-only application to start, we can configure Next.js to disable prerendering from the `App` component down.

```tsx
const App = dynamic(() => import('../../App'), { ssr: false })
```

Now, update your entrypoint page to use the new component:

```tsx filename="app/[[...slug]]/page.tsx" switcher
import '../../src/index.css'
import { ClientOnly } from './client'

export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ slug: [''] }]
}

export default function Page() {
  return <ClientOnly />
}
```

```jsx filename="app/[[...slug]]/page.js" switcher
import '../../src/index.css'
import { ClientOnly } from './client'

export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ slug: [''] }]
}

export default function Page() {
  return <ClientOnly />
}
```

> ### Step 6: Update Static Image Imports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 6: Update static image imports
```

> property. You can safely ignore those for now. They will be fixed by the end of this guide.

### Step 7: Migrate the Environment Variables

Next.js has support for `.env`
[environment variables](/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/environment-variables)
similar to CRA.

The main difference is the prefix used to expose environment variables on the
client-side. Change all environment variables with the `REACT_APP_` prefix to `NEXT_PUBLIC_`.

### Step 8: Update Scripts in `package.json`

You should now be able to run your application to test if you successfully migrated to Next.js. But
before that, you need to update your `scripts` in your `package.json` with Next.js related commands,
and add `.next` and `next-env.d.ts` to your `.gitignore`:

```json filename="package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev",
    "build": "next build",
    "start": "next start"
  }
}
```

```txt filename=".gitignore"
# ...
.next
next-env.d.ts
.dist
```

Now run `npm run dev`, and open [`http://localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000). You should see your application now running on Next.js.

> ### Step 9: Clean Up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 9: Clean up
```
